# Claim Student Capstone Starter

In Air Traffic Control(ATC) there is a very important Handover/Takeover procedure, that is taken place every time a single controller, takes over the Sector(Sector - is an ATC work space that is responsible for  air traffic control on a designated airspace e.g Approach, Tower or Aerodrome) or an ATC shift handover the workflow to the next shift there is always a matter of situational awareness and checklist that the takeover shift should be aware off. The way it is done right now is the manager of handover shift gives a  verbal situational briefing to the takeover shift and the takeover shift supervisor familiarize himself with the situation and singing in.  However, this process is made verbally and significant occurrences (e.g planned equipment maintenance, planned military activity, SID or STAR (Standard Instrument Departure, Standard Instrument Procedure) cancellation) needs to be written down in the journal. For an Air Traffic Controller the process of writing down the occurrences and planned procedure can be time and consuming and time is very important in Air Traffic control. Also, the verbal briefing can be extensive, however it is not recorded, so in case of an incident the liability question arises.  For clarity, lets take a real life example of that situation:

> On the night of 1 July 2002, Bashkirian Airlines Flight 2937, a Tupolev Tu-154 passenger jet, and DHL Flight 611, a Boeing 757 cargo jet, collided in mid-air over Überlingen, a southern German town on Lake Constance, near the Swiss border. All 69 passengers and crew aboard the Tupolev and both crew members of the Boeing were killed.  According to ICAO investigation the main reason for the crash was the conflicting instructions from built in TCAS(Traffic Collision Avoidance System)  and  Air Traffic Controller.

[2002 Überlingen mid-air collision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2002_%C3%9Cberlingen_mid-air_collision#Other_factors_in_the_crash)

> However, there were side factors, such as only one air traffic controller, was controlling the airspace through which the aircraft were flying. The other controller on duty was resting in another room for the night. This was against Skyguide's regulations but had been a common practice for years and was known and tolerated by management. Maintenance work was being carried out on the main radar image processing system, which meant that the controllers were forced to use a fallback system.

> The ground-based optical collision warning system, which would have alerted the controller to the pending collision approximately 21⁄2 minutes before it happened had been switched off for maintenance. The Air Traffic Controller was unaware of this. There still was an aural [STCA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Short_Term_Conflict_Alert)(Short Term Collision Alert) warning system, which released a warning addressed to workstation seconds before the collision). This warning was not heard by anyone present at that time, although no error in this system could be found in a subsequent technical audit — however, whether or not this audible warning is functional is not something which is technically logged.

Solution: 

In no uncertain terms the implication is that this App would stop something like this from happening, however saving time and bringing more awareness to Air Traffic Control can be very beneficial for the overall safety of Handover/ Takeover procedure and Air Traffic Control in general.The App is  using MERN stack and is light and easy to use. . So far the idea for this app is to be used daily, as a electronic version of a log that would be filled out by the supervisor or the ATC, however it is also supposed to be used as a  tool in an incident investigation.
